What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
When you initialize a repository Git adds a hidden directory that contains info for the repository.  You need to do this because this is what creates the new repository.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
The staging area knows which files in the working directory you want to commit.  Also, the staging area contains files with changes compared to their previous revision in the repository.  It allows users to commit some, but not all files in the working directory.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
Use git add to add a file(s) from the working directory to the staging area.  Then use git diff --staged to compare files in staging area to those in the repository.  Also, git status will show you files in the staging area as well as files in the working directory that have been changed but not added to the staging area.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
It's probably a good idea to keep a master branch that is always working (i.e. compiling and running without erros) and maybe contains commmits for release versions.  This keeps a nice history of working code and releaes.  Branches used for features, fixes, etc. would also be usefult to track the coding work for these items.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
The diagrams show me the branches and the headless parts of the repository. If I'm working in a headless part of the repository and switch to a branch, I will not be able to get back to the headless part unless I remember its commit id.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
The result of merging two branches together is a currently-checked-out-branch that includes the commits from the merged branches. We represent it in the diagram the way we do because it shows how the currently-checked-out-branch joins the commits of the merged branches.